I want wormholes everywhere. Like in the
back of your refrigerator connected to
your ger. Okay, now you're going Homer
Simpson on me.
Wouldn't it be fun if we were just the
nth intelligent civilization to rise up
on planet Earth? I think we would see a
record of this somewhere somewhere in
the fossils, right? There'd be a Statue
of Liberty sticking out of the ground.
Damn you.
Damn you, old
[Music]
Star talk cosmic queries. Oh yeah.
Chuck, hey, you going to help me out
here? Of course. Yeah. You know, I never
see these questions in advance. They
come from our Patreon supporters, people
who are entry level. Yes. That's all it
takes is $5 a month and we uh you know,
it's been $5 a month for years. And you
know why? because we don't believe in
inflation unlike some other people.
So, is there a theme today? Nope. This
is a grab bag. Just random whatever they
want. Ask me anything. Let the people
speak and ask. Okay, let's get right
into it. Inquiring minds want to know.
Here we go. Let's get right into it.
Okay. Eric 44 says, "Hey, legends." Eric
here, exercise physiologist and
spaceflight physiology researcher from
New York City. Love it. Look at that.
Love it. He says, "My question is, all
motion requires time, but does all time
include
motion?" I would say the measurement of
time requires not only motion but
something that repeats.
Okay, think about it. Right? Have you
ever measured time with something that
did not repeat periodically? The answer
is no. No, you can't. A day repeats
every day, seconds repeat, everything
repeats, months repeat, years repeat. So
where there is no repeated motion, there
can be no coherent measure of time. All
you'd be able to do in your own
reference frame is sequence events. Mhm.
This came before that. Before that,
right? I remember in the before four
times.
No, the the before 444 times. Right.
I'm older than you. Before four four. So
now the sequence of events can be
different depending on your reference
frame relativistically. You could be
moving in a different direction and
you'll experience those events in a
different sequence than I will. But in
my reference frame, like I said, if
nothing repeats,
time cannot be measured, right, wi with
any meaning or or or repeatability. So
that's a great it's a fun interesting
philosophical question. Yeah. And but
space can exist without a time. I would
think space don't need time. No, it
doesn't. I mean, it's space is like I'm
here,
you know, I'm not going anywhere. Yeah.
You want to measure something? That's
your business. That's what you I don't
care what you measure. I'm right here.
So, there you go. That's very cool.
Well, there you go. Eric 4. Oh, I
answered that quickly. That was a great
one. Wow. Well, we're in. We're off.
We're off like a rocket. Uh, this is
Maurice Backer says, "Dear Lord Nice,
dear Dr. Tyson, I am Ilatta from the
Netherlands and I am 12. My question is,
what is the one book that every
12year-old should read? And my name is
pronounced El Elida. Okay, thanks for
the phonetic there, Elida. He knew in
advance. Yeah, I called you IA and uh
yada yada yada. Anyway, uh
no, no. Okay, Elida. And I didn't get it
right. She asked, I should read these
beforehand.
Uh anyway, universal respect and
greetings. Delightful. What a mature
12-year-old. What a very mature 12-y
old. That's clearly not written by an
American kid. Without a doubt, you know.
Yeah. So, I'm very biased here because I
only write books that I think people
should read to get them enlightened
about the universe. Okay? And I find
gaps in the publishing landscape. All
right. scientific landscape I say I'm
gonna I'm gonna bridge that gap put
something there I'm gonna put something
there right so I can say at age 12
writing like that and plus the Dutch
they they're fluent in English yeah well
I mean yeah without a doubt okay so even
though they're
No
you're mixing that up with the sweets
with the sweets I know but it's funnier
when you know I
like Dutch is actually
That's actually Dutch. But it doesn't
make for a funnier, you know, makes for
a funny joke. But anyway, you're right.
My book, Astrophysics for People in a
Hurry. Okay. Okay. Has a young people's
version of it. Oh. Called Astrophysics
for young people in a hurry. Now, I keep
thinking young people should never be in
a hurry. Yeah. Well, they got to get
back to them video games.
You know what I mean? I got to read this
real quick cuz Valerin is waiting.
Halo ain't gonna play itself. Gotta get
back to the video game. Let me see what
Neil says before I get back to Roblox.
So So that book was conceived for ages 8
to 12. Oh wow. Which collectively is
called The Twins. Right. Right. And its
value is it's not just that it's is it
dumbed down? No, it's it folds in a lot
of my own background when I was that age
cuz I was a geek kid. And so you get to
sort of live with me through your own
years that you're reading the book.
That's cool. Okay. So it might have
still have value to a precocious
12-year-old, right? But if not, then
just go right to astrophysics for people
in a hurry. It's not astrophysics. It's
it's real astrophysics. Astrophysics.
It's astrophysics, but I have cherry
picked it for the coolest stuff in the
whole universe, right? And that's what's
there from Big Bang. I call it the book
you should read when you don't really
want to know the granular details, but
you want to be able to have a cool
conversation as a cocktail party.
That'll totally equip you to do so.
Exactly. So, there's that. But then if
he just wants to have fun, definitely
the Merlin book. Oh, okay. Merlin's Tour
of the Universe. There's a Q&A. He's
asking a Q question answer right now. Uh
it's illustrated by my brother. It's
just a fun I think it's a fun book. So
forgive me for recommending my own for
shamelessly promoting myself.
No, you're supposed to. That's great.
Yeah, it's not shameless. I'm doing it
with No, you're doing it with Right. I
know. Like I know what I'm doing.
Ain't no shame attached here.
So, I think he will enjoy those. I'm
certain of it. Okay. Cuz they're written
with that in mind. That's all. Now, is
it Elida a boy's name or a girl's name?
I don't know. I don't know. He or she.
Elida. Elida. Yeah. Okay. Let's neutral.
Let's degenderize it. Yeah. We'll call
them they. They.
So, Elida, sorry to misgender you if in
fact that's what I did. But those I
think any of those three books will as
Chuck said uh you can get some good
reading in between video game playing
ain't going to play itself. There you
go.
Hi, here is Andrew Bowen. I'm riding at
the edge of our universe since the big
bang and moving with the expansion.
What does it look like when I'm facing
back at us? And what does it look like
when I'm facing outward ahead?
It looks just like it does here and now.
Ooh, we
are at the horizon of anybody who's at
our horizon. Exactly. And anybody at our
horizon sees the universe all around
them like anybody else does. There you
go. Yeah. Yep. That's right. So what'll
h what would happen is if you in this
imagine this instant go to our horizon
in this instant light from us
emitted 13.8 billion years ago is only
now just reaching you. Right? You will
see all of us as galaxies being born,
right? So this would be your horizon.
That's what that's what it is how that
works. So yeah, that's that's so cool.
We are all equally as far away from the
origin of the universe as each other.
It's like being in the middle of the
ocean. Yes. Yes. Yeah. You go to your
horizon. You're still in the ocean.
You're still in the ocean. Right. That's
so cool. Wow. Great question, Andrew. I
love it. Oh, by the way, we don't know
how far the universe extends beyond our
horizon, right? Just way you don't there
might be a point where land shows up,
right? No matter how big the ocean is.
So, there might be a point where you run
out of galaxies in the univer stuff,
right? Right. But we don't know that
because because every direction we look,
we see galaxies being born. So, we are
deep within a space-time continuum
that's much larger than our own bubble.
That's so But you know what happened? If
if if if one day Yeah. the cosmic
microwave background disappears. Uh-oh.
And that would mean that our horizon
which is expanding
at what rate? Well, it's got to be Well,
suppose isn't it faster than the speed
of light? No, no, no, no. Just a visual
horizon is is is expanding at one lighty
year per year. Right. So, in a billion
years, we'll be 14.8 billion years to
our visual horizon. All right. So the
point is if the cosmic microwave
background disappears, right? And then
you just see galaxies up to that edge
that means our horizon is washing over a
part of the universe where there is no
matter. There are no galaxies. Oh. And
we would have reached the edge of any
material substance in the universe.
Right. Cuz we're now wait is that
because we're traveling? No. No. Well,
I'm No, no. Our horizon is continuing to
move out. Because it's moving out. It's
moving out. It's moving out. So, it will
always find a galaxy being born. Right.
Okay. That's until it doesn't. I I got
you. And so, Right. Once we get past
that, that means nothing's there.
Nothing's there. Oh, correct. Snap.
That's like That's finally getting
beyond the ocean and land, right? Yeah.
All right. Wow, that was cool. In a show
like Star Talk, we jump from black holes
to biotech to brain chemistry because
science is both complex and
interconnected. But we don't just throw
ideas at you. We organize them, frame
them, and make sense of how they fit
together. That's exactly what ground
news does for the news. Instead of just
feeding you headlines, it zooms out,
showing you how stories are being
reported, who's reporting them, and
what's being left out. Like a telescope
for the media landscape, it helps you
see not just the brightest signals, but
the whole constellation of perspectives.
Think of it like a peer review for the
news. Instead of just trusting one
headline, Ground News lets you track the
evidence and form your own conclusion
based on the full picture. And right
now, Star Talk listeners can try the top
tier Vantage plan for just $5 a month,
which is a 40% discount. So, if you're
into science, but lean a little
skeptical and want to see the whole
story, head to ground.news/staruk
news/star talk or scan the QR code to
subscribe. Stay curious and stay
grounded. Now, back to the show. So,
let's go to Young Han. Young Han. Spell
Young. Uh, Y O N G. Okay. Young Han, who
says, "Mr. Tyson, I love your work and
your show. Can you talk about the Curan
hypothesis and how it impacts how we
should view our own species,
civilizations, and specialness or lack
thereof here on Earth? If advanced
civilization is so fleeting and
difficult to detect in our own fossil
record, is it going to be easier or
harder to detect in space?
Wouldn't it be fun if we were just the
nth
intelligent civilization to rise up on
planet Earth or even the nth
civilization of humans that had rose up
and destroyed the rose up again multiple
times. Right? So you'd think I think we
would see a record of this somewhere
somewhere in the fossils, right? You'd
think, right? There'd be a Statue of
Liberty sticking out of the ground. Damn
you.
Damn you all.
You apes. You
there be I mean that that's an example
of a of
a civilization that predated the the
planet of the apes because that was
Earth, right? Okay. It seems to me we
would find a record of it. If we find
bones, we find other fossilized
artifacts of dinosaurs from 65 million
years ago. Right. Then, and by the way,
the biggest mammals of the day were
these tiny little rodents running
underfoot trying to not get eaten by
T-Rex as orves. Yeah. Okay. So you can't
presume that would have that there were
big brain mammals before that because
that was the origin of the mammals on
earth right around that time around that
time right is there a possibility that
the civilization before us were not
mamlian okay so I I haven't seen any
like dinosaur casinos or
I mean just you would see things and we
we're not that we're not ignorant of the
history of what happened in Earth's
crust. Here's where you'd have a
problem. Go ahead. You can ask the
question, what is the time scale for all
of Earth's crust to get subducted back
down and come out in a volcano? Oh, cuz
that would destroy all, right? All the
all the evidence would be gone because
it become molten and then it would spew
out again and cover the earth completely
gone, right? Okay. So different parts of
the earth are younger than other parts.
The middle of Iceland is brand new,
right? Like made yesterday. All of the
big island of Hawaii. Iceland is on the
mid-Atlantic ridge that is spewing out.
I visited there recently. It's this this
is a whole new land between where I was
standing and another ledge on the other
side. And I did the math because
continents drift about the rate your
fingernails grow. Oh wow. So I did a
fast and I calculated how many millions
of years that would have taken but still
it's new land compared to other places.
You go to places where it's not
regenerated that rapidly and you don't
find other evidence. Okay. So so yeah.
Yeah. It's very unlikely is which is
Yeah. Unless the dinosaurs were like the
ABC TV show that used to be what show
called dinosaurs where you never saw
that? No. I just remember it was a
little dinosaur and when I just remember
the cartoon Land Before Time. I remember
that one. Oh, yeah. A Land Before Time.
I don't Do I know that one? It was a
cartoon movie. Yeah. I don't think I
know that one. But yeah, dinosaurs there
was like Oh, they were they were just
living. They were just living like
regular human beings. They had jobs.
They had And every everybody worked for
one corporation called the We Say So
Corporation. And uh How did I miss this?
Yeah. And then there was one little baby
dinosaur. And every time his father
would come in the room, he would jump on
his head and hit him with a pot and go,
"Not the mama. Not the mama." In other
words, like, "I don't want you. Get me,
mom." So this is So this is like the
Flintstones except they're dinosaurs.
Yeah, that's it. There's a whole world
that they a whole world just like the
Flintstones, but all run by dinosaurs.
Okay. It was a pretty pretty wild little
show back in the day. Okay. There's a
thing about like the size of their
brains, you know? There's an issue
there. Oh, okay. Just the higher levels
of high levels of thought might not be
re happening in a dinosaur whose brain.
It's an intriguing idea and I don't but
I don't I think we would see evidence of
it and we don't. Gotcha. And so in that
case, the absence of evidence is
evidence of absence. Oo, I love it.
Which is not always the case. Not always
the case. Yes.
All right. This is James H. English who
says, "Hello, Dr. Tyson Lord Nice." It's
James from Denmark. Uh by the way,
James, uh we apologize. Uh we're so
sorry
and you know all this talk uh of
Greenland, we have nothing to do with
it. Okay, we're just letting you know.
All right. It's it's like, you know,
it's like our uncle got into the liquor
cabinet while he was on his meds and now
he's just sitting in a chair going, I
know we should buy Greenland. That's
what I think. So, I'm sorry. So, here's
what James says. I heard on a previous
episode that what we think of as
singularities at the heart of a black
hole may not actually exist, but I'm not
sure I understood. We know black holes
exist, but what does it mean to say the
singularities may just be mathematical
artifacts? Yeah, good question. Love
these. Pretty wild. So if you just
follow general relativity math, right,
the the the object collapses under its
own weight. Mhm. As it collapses, the
gravity on its surface continues to
rise. It reaches a point where the
gravity on the surface has an escape
velocity greater than the speed of
light. At that point, light does not
escape, but it continues to collapse.
When we talk about the size of a black
hole, functionally we're talking about
the size of the event horizon. Mhm. But
inside the event horizon, all bets are
off. So the matter keeps shrinking.
According to the general theory of
relativity, the gravity is so severe
that nothing can stop it and it shrinks
to zero volume. Yeah. Right. And wow,
that and that's just crazy. What does
that even mean? Yeah. What does it mean?
We all presume that there's some other
law of physics that's going to prevent
that. But that calculation is at the
limits of the applicability of the
general theory of relativity. Got you.
So that's why we know in advance that
the general theory of relativity has
limits. Right? Limits to its
applicability. There you go. Right. And
whereas quantum physics have yet to find
a limit. And we got smart people on that
frontier, string theorists, who are
trying to send the math into that
singularity to try to resolve that
problem. And it's because if you do,
then you reconcile you reconcile general
relativity with quantum physics. Yes,
you will. Yeah. That's pretty wild.
Yeah. And more playfully, this fact that
it goes to zero, right? Some people say
that's where God divides by zero. Okay.
cuz you know remember you're not
supposed to you can't do that or you're
not supposed to do it.
I still don't know why. I'm just like
you know. Have you tried it cuz 0
divided by 0 is I got nothing. No that's
undefined. Right. That's my point. But I
can't define it. I started with nothing.
I divided nothing. I got nothing from
nothing. There you go. That's a good
song. Billy is nothing. When I first
heard that song I said really is that
the best math you can give me in this
disco era? I was I was in high school
when that came Everybody was high on
cocaine.
They weren't trying to do math. It's
like, who you trying to impress with
this math here? Certainly. I could hook
you up with some good formulas. Oh,
that's so funny. Okay. Okay. Here we go.
Uh, this is Michael Trilling. He says,
I'm an artist and I have been working in
stained glass recently. It had me
thinking, how can light travel through
some materials but not others? What
makes something transparent at an atomic
level? Yeah. So I don't I don't have a
good answer for that. I have an answer
but I know in advance it's it's not
good. Correct. What I So I'm I'm giving
like a just so answer to that. Okay. So
transparent media Mhm. there's nothing
to change the pathway of the light
through the medium and so it maintains a
straight direction. Okay. Okay. And so
it comes out the other side. you see
whatever was on the previous side of
that material. If the structure of the
lattice or the molecules or the atoms is
such that the light is either absorbed
or dispersed because it can still be
transparent to light, but you can't see
through it, right? What's the word for?
Translucent. Translucent. Okay. Light
still gets through. Frosted glass.
Frosted glass. But the path the light
took was varied. And so there's no
coherent image that comes through to the
other side. Gotcha. Here's a little
known fact. As this person surely knows,
light travels slower in a medium than it
travels in a vacuum, right? It travels
slowest in a diamond,
which helps it internally reflect so
that when light comes in from one
direction, it pops out a different
direction. Right. When when it's cut
when the facets are just right. Right.
Right. Right. So that's why diamonds
have a certain radiance of their own
when they're just really messing with
the light that came in. So, Bri uh
Rihanna was wrong. It's not shine bright
like a diamond. It's just reflect
refract light like a diamond. What was
that from? Oceans 8. No, she she has a
song shine bright like a diamond. Oh,
sorry. I didn't know that shining. It's
not shining. Yeah, it's not shining at
all. Right. Yeah. Is that where they put
her in Oceans 8? Probably. And that and
she's Rihanna.
Okay.
Okay. Couple more. Go. All right. Here
we go. Alex Romeilian says this.
Greetings, Dr. Tyson, and your rag tag
team of lifelong learners. I'm Alex from
Northeast England. My question, there's
a lot of talk about mining the moon.
Wouldn't that be a bad idea considering
if we're transferring mass from the moon
to Earth, we won't make the moon lighter
because of the gravitational effects it
has on Earth, uh, i.e. the tides to
weaken over time and eventually stop.
What other effects could it have?
Regards from a lifelong learner. I love
it and I love lifelong learners. Yes.
Thank you for checking in. Yes. Okay.
Couple of things. Couple things. First,
two things. Uh so it is likely that
whatever we mine on the moon will stay
on the moon or go to other places in the
solar system where we're doing work.
Right? It's not likely that the moon has
something so valuable that we need to
bring back to Earth, especially since
the moon was carved out of our crust in
a collision between a Mars-Sized
protolanet and Earth, right? It
sideswipes up our crust goes into orbit,
coaleses to form the moon, right? And so
the moon is it's our crust. That's
probably not too valuable. No, it's not
too valuable. Not too valuable to go
there and then bring it back. So now the
but suppose we did suppose we mined 100%
of the moon. All right. Brought the
whole damn moon back piece by piece. I
love it. Okay. All right. We still have
tides. Right. From the sun. The sun. All
right. Cuz sun tides are about a third
as strong as the moon tides. Right. All
right. So you still have tides. Not as
big, not as bodacious, but you still
have tides. How much heavier does Earth
weigh?
The moon is a little more than 1% the
mass of the Earth. Oh, that's nothing.
That's nothing. That ain't doing
nothing. That ain't That ain't doing
That's a mosquito. Like if if So if you
weigh 100 mosquito on an elephant. So if
you weigh so 100 pounds on Earth Mhm.
you'd weigh
[Music]
one pound and a little and change. No,
that's that's barely You fluctuate that
not worth the between meals and between
poop. Okay. You you fluctuate. That
happens to me every morning.
You know what I mean?
Get up on the scale like, damn. Go to
the bathroom. All right.
So, yeah, it's not. Don't worry about
it. Yeah, it's it's it's a big moon, but
Earth is even bigger. There you go. We
good. All right. This is Bass
Sterved. And Bass says, "Greetings, Dr.
Tyson, Sir Chuck, Bass from the
Netherlands. Here, something that's
bothered me for a while is the term
time. Ooh. Why do we still call it that?
Time isn't absolute. It's relative and
experienced differently depending on our
motion through spaceime. A photon
doesn't experience time at all. Wouldn't
it perhaps be better to rename time in a
scientific context? Would something like
observer related perception of reality
not be a better representative of what
we should call time? I'd love to hear
your thoughts on this. Have a beautiful
day. I don't have more time for this,
Mr. Sterald.
Okay. I have one answer. So, it's a cool
cool little thing that he's positing.
Time has one syllable. Exactly. And what
he read there, count the syllables.
Count the syllables. uh observer
relative
perception
of reality.
It's 14 syllables. 14 syllables. Time
has one syllable, right? Exactly. So we
So take that word and make it mean what
we want it to mean. And by the way, and
that's the meaning of the word. And you
can't even say what time is it with his.
You would have to say what is your
observer related perception of reality
right now. And there's certain things
that we do just because it's simple. For
example, our words that describe the sun
and the horizon are pre-Capernac.
I don't say to you, Chuck, at what time
does Earth rotate such that our sight
line to the horizon reveals the sun
sitting out there in space. I instead I
say, when sunrise and when's sunset and
when sunset, right? And I think we're
we're okay with that. Yeah, cuz the sun
didn't really rise at all. Well, from
your point of view, right? But still,
it's a simple two two syllable word. So,
so I don't mind precision, but not at
the expense of economy. All right. Very
cool. All right. Here we go. This is
Zachu. And Zach says, "Hello, Dr. Tyson
Lord." Nice. Zack here from Moonsville,
New York or Munsville, New York. You've
talked about knowing mathematically how
to create a wormhole in previous cosmic
queries and other explainers. I was
wondering what is keeping us from taking
the mathematics from paper and applying
them to the physical world going from
script to screen so to speak. Oh, I like
that. Thanks in advance. I like that.
So, the problem is we're missing an
ingredient. Oh, really? Yes. We need
matter. Mhm. Or some substance that has
negative gravity.
Uhoh. Okay. So, matter has gravity,
right? So, matter can make black holes
where you're compressing things down
into one place, right? And a wormhole
requires you pry open the fabric of
spaceime. Gotcha. So, you'd be parking
this negative matter, this negative
gravity substance in a way that you
pried open a tunnel through the fabric
of spaceime. The fabric of spaceime
itself. Wow. So we would know how to
configure it, how much of it we need,
but we don't have it. Gotcha. Now, there
are people who say, "Well, what about
dark energy?" That's a negative gravity
in the back in the back of space of
space. Right. Since we don't know what
it is, I'm not saying let's set up a
factory to make wormholes out of it. I'm
not ready to do that. Okay. Right. And
if one day we know what it is and then
we can harness it and then package it
and sell it. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm all in
for for wormholes. Oh my gosh, that'd be
very cool. I want wormholes everywhere.
Yeah, like in the back of your
refrigerator connected to your ger.
Okay, now you're going Homer Simpson on
me.
No, I'm running low on milk to check on
you. I just reach into the refrigerator.
I'm at the grocery store. Grab some
milk. Oh, no. No. The grocery does that
for you? Oh. Oh, he'll have your
package. Oh, he stocks your fridge from
the wormhole because they just open it
up. All right, I'll take it back. That's
dope. That's totally dope. Oh, I love
it. Yeah. You're never low on any supply
and they'll know the rate and you don't
have to go travel. Yeah. And Oh my gosh.
Wow. That is fresh direct direct.
That's the wormhole edition of Fresh.
So, and there's so many things that we
just take for granted require
transportation systems that would just
be rendered obsolete with wormholes such
as on Star Trek the transporter. Right.
Right. You don't need to deconstruct
your entire body molecularly, put it
into a pattern buffer and then beam it
somewhere and recreate it hoping you get
the hoping that you get the same pattern
in the exact same sequence. Neurosynetic
memories and everything. Yeah. You just
walk through a portal and you're there.
Now you're there. Yeah. That's it would
render that solution to travel obsolete.
Yeah. But it would just ruin like the
most awesome effect that Star Trek came
up with, which is
it's very cool. All right, Chuck, we got
time for two more. All right, we got a
lot done. We got a lot done today. Wow.
All right, here we go. Am I getting
better at giving short answers? Maybe. I
think the questions might be helping.
No, I'm joking. Yes. Here we go. This is
James uh Liot. Hi y'all. This is James
from Midland, Texas. Midland, Texas. I
know Midland, Texas. The place where
baby Jessica fell down the well. James,
let me explain something to you. James,
let me just let me just help you out for
a second. Stop. That is not a claim to
fame. That y'all let a little baby fall
down a hole and that you couldn't get
her out and that the whole country had
to find about it. The whole country
learned about the whole country learned
about it before you were able to get
this child out of that hole. Okay. I
know Midland. It's a the twin cities
there. Midland and Odessa. Midland and
Odessa. Okay. Yeah. Midland. The rich
folk live in Midland. Oh, okay.
Well, back when I was there, that was
that was it. It was a very clear clearly
understood divide. I got you. In in the
in the landscape. All right. All right.
Well, James says this. Since photons
have no mass, how do they carry the
image of their source to say a telescope
or an eyeball? So, what does it mean to
say uh we see something because we
process photons? There seems to be
nothing there in a photon to process.
Where in the mass in the massless energy
of a photon is this information that we
receive? This keeps bugging me, man. So,
please help. Let me hook up my my boy
from from Midland. From Midland. All
right. Now, Mid Midland, Texas. Midland,
Texas. Midland. So,
here you go. Here we go. If you took all
the photons and just crammed them
through the one little opening and
didn't have a lens, right? Then you
would not have an image, you would just
have light. That's what we do when we
take a spectrum of an object. We take
all the light, funnel it down into
what's called a slit, goes through the
prism or equivalent device, and you see
how much energy, how many photons of
different wavelengths is coming from
that source. It's not an image at all.
It's not an image. You don't know what
the hell the thing looks like, but you
have this many that are red, this many
blue photons. This has extra photons in
a particular place cuz an atom is
sending you energy extra in that zone.
And you just look at the spectrum and
that is a no image measurement of the
object. If you take the photons and have
a lens, then there's a photon that came
from your nose, a photon that came from
your toe, a photon that came from the
top of your head. It's a different color
because your hair is black, your skin is
brown, your shoes are red. And so this
will be a red photon. This will be a
black photon. And the lens reconstructs
where they came from onto your detector.
You focus it up. The photon lands
exactly according to what the image was.
So you're right. A photon alone contains
no image information. You need the
ensemble of photons to do so. Wow.
Dude, that was a really good question.
Yeah, I I hope he feels good about that.
Yeah, that you should be. That's I I
learned something just then. That That's
really damn cool.
All right, last question as you said.
All right, this is Alan Short. You went
from the Netherlands to Midland Odessa
to Denmark. Yep. To northeast England.
Well, you're gonna love this one. This
is Alan Short from Thailand. Thailand?
No, I'm joking. I'm lying. This is Alan
Short from Italy. Italy. Italy.
Bonjour. Allan. He says, "With a
profound admiration and the utmost awe
of Professor Tyson and HRH Chuck Nice."
I don't know what HR means. His Royal
Highness. I'll take it.
[Music]
Uh, and when I was a kid, when you know
we have juvenile sensing, we say his
worldy. Yeah. I was about to say and
that's cuz that's exactly I was going to
say Royal Heine parts but don't Yeah.
Royal Heiny. Okay. According to one
theory, our universe is located inside
of a black hole. If this is the case,
where is our universe's singularity?
Likewise, seeing as we have proof that
our universe is expanding, why are we
not seeing other black holes presumably
themselves being self-contained
universes expanding and taking over our
universe with much love? Thank you,
Allan. I I Brian Green would be better
to answer that, so I'll give what I can.
Okay. All right. So, a couple of things.
All right. Some equations related to a
black hole apply to our entire universe.
Okay. such as we have an event horizon.
We we have a horizon, right? We do. It's
analogous to event horizon of a black
hole. Correct. We if you look at the
density of matter in the universe out to
that event horizon, it is the density of
matter you would need to make a black
hole the size of our universe. So
there's c but is it a black hole? Okay.
And so if it is then there ought to be a
singularity somewhere that we haven't
seen. We don't know where it is, right?
Okay. And so unless we're just the
information of the black hole. Oh. And
so what we're seeing is the holographic
information of the black hole. The black
hole is inside our black. More than
information. I want to be I want to be a
boy.
And it's And that's Italian. That's a
Pinocchio reference. Pinocchio
reference. We have done it people. That
is how you stick a lamp in a
go to Italy and end up with Pinocchio.
All right, so that could be just where
the analogy breaks between the universe
and what a black hole is. They have a
couple similarities, but one last point
and we'll end on this that the equations
of a black hole and I there's a book
here that I can dig out that will
describe them and you're our guy
correctly noted that a whole new
spaceime opens up inside the black hole.
If you look back at us, the future
history of the universe runs its course
and a whole other spaceime opens up. So
each black hole would contain a
universe. A universe. And but that
universe is not sharing the spaceime of
our universe. So if they're worried,
will it fill up or bump in? No. In
higher dimensions, you can fit
everything. Right. It all it Yeah. It
doesn't make a difference. That's right.
You can fit it all. That's so cool. Just
a quick thing. You have a sheet of paper
that goes to infinity, right? It's two
dimensions. If I go into a third
dimension, I can have another sheet of
paper that goes to and it does not
intersect the first. Exactly. In fact, I
can have an infinite number of infinite
sheets of paper above the other.
Correct. So, when you add higher
dimensions, you don't have to think or
worry about, you know, stepping on each
other's toes. Cool. It can happen. You
just It's It's not a thing, right? All
right. Yeah. I think we got to call it
quits there, Chuck. Well, that was a
good one. That was That was very
hodgepodge. Yeah, I like it. I like it
when they're all over the place and all
over the world. All over the world. All
right. Very good. This has been a star
talk cosmic queries grabbag edition.
Those are fun. Yeah, love those. Neil
Chuck, thanks for doing this. Always a
pleasure. All right, Neil deGrasse
Tyson, your personal astrophysicist
reporting from my office planetary. As
always, keep looking up.
[Music]